

**SR22 Process** 

SR22 is required for a driver to maintain their driver’s license because of a specific violation or offense. 

**Field Labeled**: SR22 	**Response:** Yes/No 

**Field Reason:** Drop Down Response Options \- DWI or DUI Conviction, Driving Without Insurance, Multiple Traffic Offenses in a Short Period, At-Fault Accident Without Insurance, License Suspension or Revocation, Court Order or Driving with a Suspended License. 

**SR22 Fee: $25.00.** 

* This is a fully earned fee and due upon processing.  
*  If at NB should be included with the down payment in full.  
*  If added by ends the full fee should be requested to complete the endorsement in addition to any endorsement fee or additional down payment required due to an increase in premium. 

**SR22 Form Required Fields**

* **Driver Name**   
* **Address/City/State/Zip**  
* **Case Number \= TX DL No.**  
* **TX Driver’s License No.**  
* **Date of Birth**   
* **Policy Number**  
* **Effective Date**  
* **Owner Policy or Operator Policy (Non-Owner)**  
* **State \= Texas**  
* **Name of Insurance Company**  
* **Date (Issued)**   
* **Signature** 

**Other Rules Related to SR22’s**

* SR22 can be added to the policy for a rated driver that has a Texas Driver’s License at New Business or by Endorsement.   
* The system should generate a SR22 template with the driver’s information and carrier details.  This document should be automatically created by the system and placed in the document output for the agent or underwriter to provide to the customer. This should also be available on the insured portal if the policy is active.   
* The SR22 template is NOT sent by mail or electronically to the State. It is the responsibility of the driver requiring the SR22 to provide to the DMV/State for handling.   
* NO fees are to be collected or accounted for that have to do with any fines due to the State.   
* SR22 is a data field captured and reported to the State Weekly for Insurance Verification. This is the only notification that is submitted by the MGA/Carrier.   
* If an endorsement to update the rated driver requiring the SR22 is processed changing any required data on the SR22 template form a new SR22 should be generated by the system.    
* A non-owner policy is available only if an SR22 is requested. Non-owner policy must meet all other requirements.   
* We do not allow SR22A filings on this program. 

**SR26 Form** 

* An SR26 is created when the SR22 is no longer needed by the customer to maintain their license or when the policy is cancelled for any reason.   
* If the policy is cancelled the form is generated and includes all the same data as the SR22 but will have a cancellation effective date.   
* The data submitted to the State is updated to reflect the policy cancellation and the cancellation of the SR22 by way of the SR26.   
* If a policy is reinstated a new SR22 will be generated with a new effective date, all other data fields will apply.


